#Q This German military leader led the Sixth Army at the siege of Stalingrad. After months of siege, he was defeated and surrendered to the Russians.
^ Friedrich Paulus
A Friedrich Paulus
B Karl Donitz
C Joseph Goebbels
D Heinrich Himmler

#Q Which medieval unit of volume is the largest?
^ Tun
A Bushel
B Tun
C Gallon
D Quarter

#Q The first Crusade was initiated by Emperor Alexius I, when he appealed to Pope Urban II for help in defending against the Muslims.   Alexius I was the ruler of this great empire.
^ The Byzantine Empire
A The Holy Roman Empire
B The Byzantine Empire
C The Chinese Empire
D The Western Roman Empire

#Q What decade saw the Great Depression, Adolf Hitlers election as Chancellor of Germany, and the outbreak of World War II?
^ 1930s
A 1950s
B 1920s
C 1940s
D 1930s

#Q Which temperature scale came first, Fahrenheit or Celsius?
^ Fahrenheit
A They were developed at  the same time
B They were developed so close together that no one knows
C Fahrenheit
D Celsius

#Q Why is July 4th, 1776 considered the birthday of the United States?
^ because the signing of the Declaration of Independence began on that day
A because the signing of the Declaration of Independence began on that day
B because on that day the British recognized US independence
C because on that day all thirteen former colonies finally agreed to a constitution for their new government    
D because on that day the Americans had their first victory over the British at Boston

#Q Which king of England is not the title character of a Shakespearean play?
^ Henry VII
A Richard III
B Henry VIII
C Henry VII
D Richard II

#Q This woman was a Victorian era feminist, especially concerned with the welfare of working girls.
^ Josephine Butler
A Anne Clough
B Josephine Butler
C Emily Davies
D Frances Buss

#Q Elkhorn Tavern is located on which battlefield?
^ Pea Ridge
A Pea Ridge
B Chickamauga
C Franklin
D Wilsons Creek

#Q The Cold war, which began in 1947 was a consequence of World War II. Who were the leaders of the two superpowers (The USA and the Soviet Union) at the beginning of the Cold War?
^ Truman and Stalin
A Truman and Stalin
B Eisenhower and Kruschev
C Eisenhower and Stalin
D Molotov and Roosevelt

#Q What cartoon character made his film debut on June 9, 1934?
^ Donald Duck
A Daffy Duck
B Mickey Mouse
C Donald Duck
D Pluto

#Q What statement is true about the Soviet response to the US blockade of Cuba during the Cuban Missile Crisis? 
^ The Soviet Union turned back from the blockade their cargo ships that were carrying military materials.       
A The Soviet Union attempted to run the blockade but stopped when three Soviet ships were sunk.
B The Soviet Union accepted the blockade as legal and made no attempt to have it removed.
C The Soviet Union turned back from the blockade their cargo ships that were carrying military materials.       
D The Soviet Union tried to sink US warships using torpedoes from submarines but failed to sink any US ships.   

#Q Which nation revolted against Soviet-imposed policies in 1956?
^ Hungary
A Ukraine
B Poland
C Hungary
D Czechoslovakia

#Q The optical telegraph (a collective term) preceded the electrical telegraph. It was much faster than riding couriers in to deliver messages over long distances. One of these is not an optical telegraph.
^ Morse code
A Semaphores
B Morse code
C Ship flags
D Smoke signals

#Q What was the name of the tough Colonel who commanded the Hessian Garrison during the Battle of Trenton?      
^ Johann Rall
A Heinrich Bannerman
B Ernst Von Klieg
C Johann Rall
D Karl Stern

#Q During the Korean War, why was General MacArthur fired as commander of the anti-communist forces in Korea by the President (who is also commander-in-chief of US armed forces)?
^ MacArthur publicly disagreed with the Presidents policy of limited war in Korea.
A MacArthur refused to attack Chinese bases in China.
B MacArthur publicly disagreed with the Presidents policy of limited war in Korea.
C The American public demanded a more effective commander.
D MacArthur refused to cooperate with NATO forces.

#Q This man holds a patent for a special Jacuzzi-type of spa bath for women that includes a chair, a circulation valve, and a device for eliminating the dirty water.
^ Penn Jillette
A Joseph Abrahams
B Jerry Lewis
C Marcel Marceau
D Penn Jillette

#Q The first major act of terrorism attributed to bin Ladens al-Qaeda group was in 1998 when it blew up which of these?
^ U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya
A U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya
B USS Cole destroyer in Yemen
C Khobar Towers housing complex in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia
D a parking garage of the World Trade Center

#Q This instrument of torture was thrust into the victims’ chin and sternum rendering them motionless.        
^ The Heretics Fork
A The Princes Prod
B The Sorcerers Staff
C The Kings Spear
D The Heretics Fork

#Q This flamboyantly-dressed announcer on The Price Is Right died on October 27th, 2003 in Los Angeles.
^ Rod Roddy
A Gene Rayburn
B Randy Miller
C Gene Olson
D Rod Roddy

#Q What author broke the record for book sales when the last book in her famous series sold 15 million copies in 24 hours?
^ J. K. Rowling
A Dan Brown
B Norman Mailer
C C. S. Lewis
D J. K. Rowling

#Q What federal institution was founded on July 26, 1908?
^ FBI
A NSA
B CIA
C FBI
D OSS

#Q The Great Pyramid of Giza is believed to have been built as the tomb of this Egyptian pharaoh.
^ Khufu
A Amenhotep
B Ramses
C Tut
D Khufu

#Q This major battle that the Germans failed during WW II became the largest armored engagement of all time, and included the most costly single day of aerial warfare in history.
^ The battle of Kursk
A The battle in Berlin
B Operation Bagration in Belarus
C The battle of Kursk
D The battle of Normandy

#Q Where was the assault rifle invented?
^ in Italy
A in Italy
B in Mexico
C in Germany
D in Russia

#Q When did the Christianisation of Germanic tribes begin?
^ in the 4th century
A in the 5th century
B in the 4th century
C in the 7th century
D in the 6th century

#Q What did American children often do during WWII to contribute to the war effort?
^ Gathered scrap metal, rubber, etc. that could be recycled.
A They took part in basic military training
B Gathered scrap metal, rubber, etc. that could be recycled.
C They worked part time in munitions factories.
D Provided aircraft observers to help their adult counterparts spot enemy airplanes.

#Q On October 19, 2006 Nissan Motor Company recalled 80,000 cars in U.S. due to what defects?
^ in the ignition key
A in the air bags
B in the ignition key
C in the door locks
D in the seatbelts

#Q The Vietnam War is viewed not just as a conflict between South Vietnam and North Vietnam, but as a conflict of ideology between the communist block and western values. Which of these countries did not belong to the coalition of forces that supported the western-oriented, South Vietnam?
^ The United Kingdom
A The United Kingdom
B Australia
C New Zealand
D South Korea

#Q Who was US President during most of the Korean War?
^ Truman
A Eisenhower
B Truman
C Kennedy
D Roosevelt

#Q Don Quixote de la Mancha is a fictional knight from the self-titled novel, written by this author.
^ Miguel de Cervantes
A Dante Alighieri
B Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa
C Arthur Conan Doyle
D Miguel de Cervantes

#Q This man is famous for the quote, I came, I saw, I conquered.
^ Julius Caesar
A Neither
B Julius Caesar
C Alexander the Great
D Both

#Q Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was born in this year, on May 22.
^ 1859
A 1859
B 1861
C 1863
D 1865

#Q Which one of these famous writers took part in the Klondike Gold Rush?
^ Jack London
A Ernest Hemingway
B Jack London
C Maine Reed
D Mark Twain

#Q This chemical weapon was first used during World War I in the Second Battle of Ypres, April 22, 1915, when the Germans attacked French, Canadian and Algerian troops.
^ Chlorine
A Phosgene
B Mustard gas
C Tear gas
D Chlorine

#Q What does the term Cenozoic mean?
^ Recent life
A Mammalian life
B Ancient life
C Recent life
D Middle life

#Q This vessel, one of the symbols of progress during the Victorian Era, was the first steam ship purposely built for Atlantic crossing.
^ SS Great Western
A SS Sirius
B SS British Queen
C SS Great Britain
D SS Great Western

#Q Which statement is true about the Chinese entry into the Korean War?
^ It pushed the anti-communist forces back rapidly all the way into South Korea.
A It caused the Nationalist forces of Taiwan to enter the war against Communist China.
B It led to US bombing of targets in China.
C It pushed the anti-communist forces back rapidly all the way into South Korea.
D It had little effect on the course of the war.

#Q Which of one these people holds patent #1370316 for a divers suit?
^ Harry Houdini
A Herbert Hoover
B Abraham Lincoln
C Harry Houdini
D Mark Twain

#Q This town, after which an Olympic event was named, was the site of a battle where the Athenian army defeated the Persians in 490 BC.
^ Marathon
A Decathlos
B Pentathos
C Marathon
D Javelinos River

#Q On November 8, 1843 this ship left Lisbon, Portugal, with 84 convicts and headed for Goa, India. Near Cape of Good Hope the ship was taken by a strong current and was driven too close to the shore. She then struck the reef off Muli Island in Mulaku Atoll.
^ The Prazer e Allegria
A The Empress of Ireland
B Titanic
C The Ravestein
D The Prazer e Allegria

#Q What was the name of the political liberalization in Czechoslovakia, which started on January 5 and lasted until August 20, 1968?
^ Prague Spring
A Prague Autumn
B Prague Summer
C Prague Winter
D Prague Spring

#Q Against which country were the two Gulf Wars fought?
^ Iraq
A Israel
B Iran
C Vietnam
D Iraq

#Q During World War II, this politician was the powerful leader of the Soviet Union, the country which suffered a record death toll in the war.
^ Joseph Stalin
A Joseph Stalin
B Vyacheslav Molotov
C Nikita Khruschev
D Leonid Brezhnev

#Q Which of these events did not  occur in 1947?
^ The United Nations is founded.
A The Dead Sea Scrolls are found.
B Chuck Yeager breaks the sound barrier.
C The United Nations is founded.
D The Polaroid Camera is invented.

#Q This American was sentenced to life in prison, because in 1968 he led the My Lai massacre of Vietnamese civilians, including women, children and elderly men.
^ William Calley
A Clark Clifford
B John Kerry
C William Calley
D Ernest Medina

#Q North Vietnamese troops entered this South Vietnamese city, marking the unofficial end to the Vietnam War in 1975.
^ Saigon
A Saigon
B Dong Nam Bo
C Vinh
D Nha Trang

#Q What blockbuster movie opened on May 25, 1977?
^ Star Wars
A Star Wars
B The Godfather
C The Godfather Part II
D Jaws

#Q This Italian poet, considered one of the fathers of the Renaissance, is also regarded as the father of alpinism.
^ Petrarch
A Castiglione
B Machiavelli
C Petrarch
D Dante

#Q What was the nickname of Tom Cruises character in Top Gun?
^ Maverick
A Goose
B Iceman
C Maverick
D Viper